no you couldn't help yourself you snap a
vacation selfie with your fingers in a
peace sign
and post it to your social media it gets
you likes comments
all that good stuff the next day someone
breaks into your banking app
someone just stole your identity all
thanks to that innocent little selfie
the peace sign first became popular
about 70 years ago
back then no one could have imagined it
could cost you
all your precious personal data nowadays
you can use your fingerprint to unlock
your smartphone tablet and laptop
if someone can get your fingerprint they
can get access to
basically everything japanese
researchers managed to scan and copy
fingerprints
from a photo taken about nine feet away
normal quality
fingerprints and focus and some good
lighting that's all it takes apparently
the better the image quality the easier
it is
so if you have one of the latest phones
you're in a high risk zone
any old 3d printed finger won't unlock a
phone though
most newer models have fingerprint
readers with tiny electrical circuits
when they come into contact with the
ridges on your real fingers
they recreate your fingerprint pattern
human skin
is conductive and 3d printer ink isn't
but scientists found a way around it
they used an inkjet 2d printer
conductive ink with tiny metallic
particles in it
and regular paper and it worked
your fingerprint data is really valuable
because it's more vulnerable than any
password you might have
if something weird happens like you get
a suspicious email or text
you can just change any password you
want in a few minutes
but you can't exactly download a new
fingerprint how would that even work
when someone gets access to your
fingerprint there's big
money involved unfortunately it's your
money
cyber bad guys can get rich off that
kind of data
you probably use your thumb to log into
apps including your banking ones
that's your money and personal info up
for grabs to the highest bidder
if someone gets access to your health
records they can order expensive
equipment in your name
and resell it later or they can just go
to the doctor or dentist for free
the good news is scientists are on it
they've invented a clear sticker that
has a fake finger vein pattern
imprinted on it it'll stop people from
stealing your identity
but still let you use your fingerprint
to unlock your gadgets
it's still a work in progress though
another option is called
liveness detection after your phone
reads your fingerprint
it asks you to nod wink or smile that
way the phone knows the fingerprints
attached to you
a real person there's no way to fake
that
if you rock the peace sign every chance
you get you might want to come up with a
new signature move
that's the hang loose the double thumbs
up and that
awesome one where you put your chin
between your thumb and your index finger
or just keep it up but disable the
fingerprint reader on your phone
if you choose to do that you'll need to
be ten times more careful about your
passwords
get creative when you answer those
security questions the ones they ask you
when you forget your password
if someone's after your data they can
easily find out the name of your
elementary school
your mother's maiden name your favorite
food or pet
don't make it so easy you can write your
answers in backwards
or just give funny wrong answers that
you'll easily remember
just in general share as little
information about yourself as you can
online in case you have your pet's name
as a password
one change it two if you have to keep it
don't share pics of your pet's collar
and name tag
the best passwords are and always will
be random mixtures of letters and
numbers
you can also use a password manager to
create a stronger password
if your bank or insurance company asks
you to provide some additional personal
information by email
double check with them call them ask
them if they really need it
read the email carefully fake ones often
have spelling or grammar mistakes
even if the email address seems pretty
legit
when you're putting in your payment data
to buy something online
make sure there's a padlock symbol
before the web page address
that means it's protected from any bad
guys out there
don't share your full date of birth on
social media
and watch out for those online quizzes
that make their way around the internet
they don't really need to know where you
went to school
don't post photos that have your
boarding pass password
driver's license credit card or anything
else with personal information on
it even if it's just casually lying
there in the background
bad guys can zoom in on it if you don't
want the rest of the world to know your
exact address
turn off the location function in your
camera settings on your phone
if you really want to keep the location
info to organize your photos better
you can manually remove the geotag from
photos you want to post
online on an iphone select one or
several photos to post
and tap the share button then choose
options at the top of the screen
toggle off the all photos data in the
next screen that opens
on a mac open photos then general
preferences
uncheck the include location information
for published items
on an android open gallery tap the
picture you want to take the geo tag off
and swipe up on it choose edit then tap
the red minus thing next to the location
then save the changes be careful when
you're shopping online during your
morning commute to work
especially if you're driving actually
just don't do that
but if you're on a bus or a train try to
position your screen in such a way
that no one but you can see it you don't
want a sneaky neighbor to peep over your
shoulder
and copy your password credit card
details or shipping address
you can get a special privacy screen
protector just to be on the safe side
don't make any bank transactions while
you're using public wi-fi
when the network is unsecured or if the
website is unencrypted
you risk all that data going to someone
else on the same network
they can even log in with your account
disable push
notifications on your phone or at least
limit what you can see on the lock
screen
the name of the app that sent it is
enough otherwise
when you leave your phone for a moment
in a public place or at work
someone can get access to your data they
won't even have to unlock your phone to
read the message or notification
never submit your confidential
information over the phone
you could have malware on it that's
recording everything you say
or sending your data off somewhere if
your phone's working slower than it used
to
and you have apps on it you don't
remember installing it might have been
tampered with
malware can also make it on your phone
when you install an
app that's not from the official app
store when an app asks you for
permission to access
every part of your phone that's another
sign it might not be trustworthy
one form of wishing or voice phishing is
when someone pretends to be a
representative over the phone
and ask you to provide your data always
check with your bank
hospital or whoever they're pretending
to be
the real banker hospital usually won't
ask you for sensitive stuff over the
phone
you might also get a robo call that asks
you to contact some phone number to
claim a prize
the recording might say you can press a
certain button
to stop receiving calls from this number
ignore it
you'll just sign yourself up for more
robo-calls because
they'll know you're a real person
some bad guys that practice wishing are
after your voice
it's as unique as your fingerprint iris
or dna
a simple yes or i'm listening can help
them generate a sample of your voice
if they get that and some other data
from you they can access more personal
data
and even pretend to be you over the
phone
there are programs nicknamed photoshop
for voice
that can change a recording of your
voice into something you never really
said
so the best thing you can do is hang up
without saying a word
when you try to delete something online
you gotta make sure
it really gets deleted there are
websites that let you see your long
since deleted facebook account
with all those old pics you'd rather not
share
anymore so if you're searching for
evidence of eternal life
well there you go